Readthrough mathias (#32)
SW805F20/report: sections/sprint-1/experiment.tex

To determine the accuracy of the Pozyx tags an experiment was conducted.
The primary goal of the experiment was to test the accuracy, but a secondary goal of the experiment was to determine the frequencies of updates for each tag.
\\
\subsection{Purpose}
According to research regarding latency in VR \cite{WaltemateThomas2016Tiol} and interactive systems \cite{10.1145/169059.169431} the number of movement errors increase as the latency increases.
An example of this is when a tag is moved, and the tag first sends a new position after 3 seconds, then the movement error could be high as the user does not know his exact position for these 3 seconds.
According to experiments with VR, the motor performance and sense of body ownership start to decrease at latencies above 75 ms.\\

> This means that the optimal results from these experiments would indicate that the Pozyx system can send enough position updates which allows the system to operate with a latency of less than 75 ms between their physical movement and the in-game reflection of this movement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that the optimal results from these experiments would indicate that the Pozyx system can send position updates fast enough which allows the system to operate with a latency of less than 75 ms between their physical movement and the in-game reflection of this movement.
```

\subsection{Setup}
The tags were set to transmit with the highest bitrate with the longest preamble length and with the ranging mode set to precise \cite{pozyx-Performance}.\\
According to the documentation, these values lower the tags update rate to about 9hz which is then divided by the number of tags used in the system as described in \autoref{pozyx:TWR}.
As the main goal of the experiment was to test the accuracy these settings were chosen to gives the most accurate positioning.

> The settings can be changed at a later point to get try to increase the update rate to a level where the latency for the users is acceptable.\\

Reviewer 2: to get try to giver ikke rigtigt mening

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=0.6\linewidth]{experiment-setup.PNG}

>     \caption{The setup of the experiment with the anchors and the height at which they were placed in the corners. The hexadecimal number is the anchor, and above that is the height the anchors were placed.}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    \caption{The setup of the experiment with the anchors and the height at which they were placed in the corners. The hexadecimal number is the anchor, and above that is the height at which the anchors were placed.}
```

\subsubsection{Precision with 3 tag}
For this part of the experiment, the accuracy was tested with three tags. 

> The tags where positioned at three different x coordinates. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tags were positioned at three different x-coordinates. 
```

> 140, 180 and 220 were chosen the x coordinates and then moved up the y coordinate 30 each time starting from 0 to 120.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
140, 180 and 220 were chosen the x-coordinates and then moved up the y-coordinate 30 cm each time starting from 0 to 120.
```

> 140, 180 and 220 were chosen the x-coordinates and then moved up the y-coordinate 30 cm each time starting from 0 to 120.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
140, 180 and 220 were chosen as the $x$ coordinates and the $y$ coordinate was moved up by 30 cm each time starting from 0 to 120.
```

\subsubsection{Precision with 5 tag}
For this experiment, it was noted how many data points were sent in the 5-second intervals, as well as the average deviation.

> The tags where positioned at five different x coordinates. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tags were positioned at five different x-coordinates. 
```

> 140, 160, 180, 200 and 220 were chosen the x-coordinates and then moved up the y-coordinate 20 cm each time starting from 0 to 120.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
140, 160, 180, 200 and 220 were chosen as the $x$ coordinates and the $y$ coordinate was moved up by 20 cm each time starting from 0 to 120.
```

> 140, 160, 180, 200 and 220 were chosen the x coordinates and then moved up the y coordinate 20 cm each time starting from 0 to 120.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
140, 160, 180, 200 and 220 were chosen the x-coordinates and then moved up the y-coordinate 20 cm each time starting from 0 to 120.
```

The $y$ coordinate fluctuated more but was still less than 25 cm.

\subsection{Possible influences on the test}
One thing that could have affected the tags is that a whiteboard was used as a measure for positions. 
As there is metal in the whiteboard this could have affected the precision on the tags.
Metals are conductors, which can lead to the signal having less power and reduced range, and the signal might spend extra time trying to get through the metal.
Since Pozyx positioning relies on calculating the time of flight, having the signal spend extra time traveling reduces accuracy \cite{pozyx-UWBObstacles}. 
\\\\

> If we look at the $z$ coordinate in the test experiment data, it can be seen that $z$ fluctuates a lot more than the $x$ and $y$ coordinate. 

Reviewer: Hvor meget mere?

> This can be due to the heights between the anchors were not sufficient enough, and should have been larger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be due to the height difference between the anchors were not sufficiently large.
```

The $y$ coordinate fluctuated more but was still less than 25 cm.

\subsection{Possible influences on the test}
One thing that could have affected the tags is that a whiteboard was used as a measure for positions. 
As there is metal in the whiteboard this could have affected the precision on the tags.
Metals are conductors, which can lead to the signal having less power and reduced range, and the signal might spend extra time trying to get through the metal.
Since Pozyx positioning relies on calculating the time of flight, having the signal spend extra time traveling reduces accuracy \cite{pozyx-UWBObstacles}. 
\\\\

> If we look at the $z$ coordinate in the test experiment data, it can be seen that $z$ fluctuates a lot more than the $x$ and $y$ coordinate. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If we look at the  $z$ coordinate in the test experiment data, it can be seen that $z$ fluctuates a lot more than the $x$ and $y$ coordinates. 
```

> The max $z$ coordinate for multiple experiments are often more than 3 meters and the average $z$-coordinate is also often 1 meter higher than the actual coordinate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The max $z$ coordinate for multiple experiments is often more than 3 meters and the average $z$ coordinate is also often 1 meter higher than the actual coordinate.
```

> This can be due to the height difference between the anchors were not sufficiently large.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This could be due to the height difference between the anchors not being sufficiently large.
```

\\\\
We also need to consider the spikes in the coordinates, such that the user does not jump around on the screen, even though the user might not be moving.
\\\\

> With this experiment, it would not be possible to make the game 3 dimensional, as the $z$ coordinate fluctuates too much.

Reviewer: Er vi sikre på det?

> If we later on choose to make use of the $z$ coordinate, then it is necessary to conduct another experiment with the Pozyx with different larger height differences, but as it currently is only a two dimensional game, it is not necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we, later on, choose to make use of the $z$ coordinate, then it is necessary to conduct another experiment with the Pozyx with different larger height differences, but as it currently is only a two-dimensional game, it is not necessary.
```

\\\\
We also need to consider the spikes in the coordinates, such that the user does not jump around on the screen, even though the user might not be moving.
\\\\

> The results of this experiment shows that a three dimensional game is not viable with the errors that we had on the $z$-coordinate. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The results of this experiment shows that a three dimensional game is not viable with the errors that we had on the $z$ coordinate. 
```

> This can be due to the height difference between the anchors only were 20 cm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is due to the height difference between the anchors only being 20 cm.
```
